God, we thank you.
Thank you that you're present with us through the power of your spirit.
Thank you that you did not leave us alone, Lord, but that you are always here with us, always encouraging us, always opening our eyes to truth.
We pray that you would do that for us now, that by your spirit we would know Jesus Christ whom you have sent, that we would know all grace and truth in him, and that you would transform our lives through that same power that is with us.
How do we ask that you would be with our nursery workers and the youth in there?
We pray that you would be with those who are downstairs.
We pray that you'd be with the middle school and high schoolers after the service for their prayer partners.
God, we thank you that we can learn as your people, that we can be your disciples and trust that you are shaping us.
Would you God grant us your grace now and this time?
In Jesus' name we pray, amen.
All right, this morning we're looking at John chapter 14 verses one through 21.
John 14 verses one through 21, follow along in the Bibles that are in the pews or on your phone, or we'll have the scripture passage on the screen as well.
John 14, one through 21.
This is Jesus speaking to his disciples.
He says, do not let your hearts be troubled.
You believe in God, believe also in me.
My father's house has many rooms.
If that were not so, what I have told you that I am going there to prepare a place for you.
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me that you also may be where I am.
You know the way to the place where I am going.
Thomas said to him, Lord, we don't know where you're going, so how can we know the way?
Jesus answered, I am the way and the truth and the life.
No one comes to the Father except through me.
If you really know me, you will know my Father as well.
From now on, you know him and have seen him."
And Philip said, Lord, show us the Father and that will be enough for us.
Jesus answered, don't you know me, Philip?
Even after I've been among you such a long time, anyone who has seen me has seen the Father.
How can you say, show us the Father?
Don't you believe that I am in the Father and that the Father is in me?
The words I say to you, I do not speak on my own authority.
Rather, it is the Father living in me who is doing His work.
Believe me when I say that I am in the Father and that the Father is in me, or at least believe on the evidence of the works themselves.
Very truly, I tell you whoever believes in me will do the works I have been doing, and they will do even greater things than these because I am going to the Father.
And I will do whatever you ask in my name so that the Father may be glorified in the Son
You may ask me for anything in my name and I will do it.
If you love me, keep my commands.
And I will ask the Father and He will give you another advocate to help you and be with you forever, the spirit of truth.
The world cannot accept him because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him before he lives with you and will be in you.
I will not leave you as orphans.
I will come to you.
Before long, the world will not see me anymore, but you will see me.
Because I live, you also will live.
On that day, you will realize that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in you.
Whoever has my commands and keeps them is the one who loves me.
The one who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I too will love them and show myself to them.
This is the word of the Lord, we say, thanks be to God.
Well, Jesus has been walking with his disciples for about three years.
And in this time, they've witnessed some pretty amazing things.
They witnessed the miracle at the wedding feast in Cana, where Jesus turns 150 gallons of water into a fine wine.
They are with Jesus when they experience him healing the son of a royal official from a distance.
Well, Jesus is in Galilee.
This boy is in Capernaum.
And Jesus merely speaks a word from 20 miles away and the boy is healed.
They're with Jesus when he feeds thousands of people using only two small fish and five barley loaves.
They hear Jesus teaching with an authority that they've never experienced before, even as it clashes with the religious leaders.
He's standing up to them.
Jesus is interacting with people who customarily he wouldn't be interacting with or he shouldn't be interacting with according to their customs and traditions.
These disciples have been walking with Jesus for the duration of his ministry.
They have been
They have been eating and drinking and laughing and learning and walking.
They've been in fellowship with Jesus.
They have been growing in their relationship with Him, forging this bond.
I picture it a little bit like being on a team.
If you've ever been on a team before, your teammates, these are some of the people that become closest to you.
As you practice daily, maybe you travel to games.
During the week, maybe you eat the same meals.
You sit at the lunch table together.
You hang out together.
And practice is that you sweat and you compete.
You celebrate wins together, you grieve losses together.
You know your teammates really better in ways that other people don't know them.
You're on a competitive team.
But imagine that one day, one of your teammates invites the team over to their house, and you get to this house and to your surprise, this house is massive.
This house has multiple garages, indoor pools, indoor court, double digit bathrooms, more bedrooms than you can count.
Now you knew that this teammate, this person had money, but maybe not to this extent.
And you realize you come to find out that this person, your teammate, their mom is the CEO of a global corporation, a well-known corporation.
How did you go through?
All these hundreds and hundreds of hours with this person and not realize an important piece of this person's identity.
This is what's going on with the disciples.
They have been walking with Jesus, communing with Jesus, building this bond with Jesus, and yet they are missing an important part, a crucial piece of his identity.
A Philip says, Jesus.
Show us the Father and that will be enough for us.
Jesus, pull back the veil.
Let us see the Father, reveal the Father to us.
And Jesus says, don't you know me?
I've been with you for this long and yet you don't know me.
You don't know that I am in the Father and that the Father is in me.
They've been walking with Jesus through the duration, the length, the stretch of his ministry.
They've been growing in this relationship and yet they're missing this crucial part of who Jesus is.
They've experienced the highs and the lows of life.
And yet Jesus says, if you really knew me, you would know my father as well.
Jesus says, when you see me, you've seen the father.
Earlier on, he says that I and the father are one.
Paul, in the letter to the church at Colossae, he says that the son, the son is the radiance of the glory of God.
This is the writer of Hebrews.
The son is the radiance of the glory of God.
He is the exact representation of the father in his image.
This is Jesus.
The disciples, they know that
This man is special.
They know that Jesus has come from God.
They experience that he has a God-like power, but what they're missing is the divinity of Jesus, that Jesus is God himself.
And when we talk like this, we're talking about the doctrine of the Trinity.
Jesus' disciples is those who are learning to live and love like Jesus.
As his followers, we are growing in him.
We are growing in our knowledge of God.
A simple faith, it's good and it's necessary.
Jesus loves me this I know for the Bible tells me so.
Jesus loves me, he who died.
Heaven's gates to open wide.
He will wash away my sin, let the little child come in.
Faith in Jesus is necessary.
But salvation is more than just having your sins washed away.
Salvation or eternal life, as Jesus calls it, is this.
He says, it is knowing God.
And it is knowing Jesus Christ, the one whom he has sent.
Salvation, eternal life is relationship.
Relationship with God.
Relationship is knowing somebody intimately.
It is being connected to somebody.
Relationship is knowing God who he is and what he's about.
We have this doctrine of the Trinity
as a way for us to know God.
The scripture bears witness that this is how we come to know God through Jesus Christ, and this is who God is in his being.
And knowing God, salvation, eternal life, it doesn't wait to start when we die.
I know salvation, eternal life, knowing God begins now.
We have been given this gift of being in relationship with God, and this is something that we cultivate, something that we are constantly growing into even now.
So as we talk about knowing God, an essential piece, an essential part, the foundation, really, of His identity is something that we know as the doctrine of the Trinity.
Let's talk about the doctrine of the Trinity for just a little bit, the Trinity.
Well, the Trinity since the 4th century councils of Nicaea and Constantinople, this language of Trinity has been formalized in the church.
The Scripture itself bears witness that this is how God has revealed himself in Scripture.
You see it happening in the creation store.
You have it in the baptism of Jesus.
You have it in the great commission.
That there is a plurality of persons in the Godhead.
And we talk about God, we say that he is a triune God.
Tri meaning three, unis meaning one, triune three in one.
God is three in one.
In the Godhead we have three persons, and yet one God, one Godhead in three persons.
Now in this, in this Godhead they are, they are united.
They are one God.
There's not three gods, there is one God.
No one is, no one comes before or comes after.
God the Father is eternal.
God the Son is eternal.
God the Holy Spirit is eternal.
Yet there is only one God.
No one of these is greater or less than the other.
Well God the Father is Almighty.
God the Son is Almighty.
God the Holy Spirit is Almighty and yet there is just one God.
one God in his essence, one God in his being.
And yet there are three distinct persons in this Godhead.
We know that the Father is not the Son.
The Son is not the Father, and the Holy Spirit is neither the Father or the Son.
In the way that the Trinity, the different persons of the God-hut are revealed in Scripture.
We know that these different persons, they have different roles.
God, the Father is known as Creator for His power and His role in creation.
The God, the Son, is known as the Redeemer for His work in going to the cross, His work in salvation and rescuing us.
Oh God, the Holy Spirit is known as the Sanctifier.
for His work empowering us to live and to love like Jesus.
And yet, although these are three distinct persons, they are never without each other.
The Father is never without the Son.
The Father is never without the Holy Spirit.
The Son is never without the Holy Spirit.
They are united, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, one God in three persons.
Well, is that all that makes sense?
No, this is the doctrine of the Trinity.
And in the 17th century, the age of reason during the Enlightenment, a German philosopher named Emmanuel Kant, he said the doctrine of the Trinity has no practical relevance at all.
The doctrine of the Trinity has no practical relevance at all.
So as we're talking about everyday discipleship,
connecting with a triune God.
What is the practical relevance of the Trinity?
What bearing does the Trinity have on our discipleship?
Does it have any?
I would say in short, yes.
The doctrine of the Trinity has everything to do with our everyday discipleship.
So let's look at, I think we're gonna look at six of them, unless I forget one.
We'll look at six of them.
First, and hopefully most obviously, this doctrine of the Trinity, it shapes the way that we know God.
It shapes the way that we know this otherwise unknowable and comprehensible God, because we have in God the Son, we have this revelation of the Godhead.
Jesus Christ has come down.
God, this on the second person of the tree, has come down to dwell among us.
So as we look at the son, we see the Father as Jesus says.
So we see his compassion for those who are lost.
We see his patience for those who are practicing or have an unbelief.
We see his anger or his impatience with leaders.
who take advantage or mistreat the vulnerable.
We see his going out to the Samaritan, to the Gentile, to the tax collector, and to the sinner.
We see his desire for lost people to come to know him.
We see his holiness.
We see his purity.
We see his perfection.
In Jesus Christ, we see the Father.
In Jesus Christ, we get to know this unknowable God as He has revealed Himself to us.
It impacts the way that we know God through Scripture.
We think about the God that we read about in the Old Testament and the God that we read about in the New Testament.
And we know that the God of the Old Testament is filled with just as much grace and mercy and compassion as Jesus Christ, because there is not more than one God.
This God of the Old Testament is the same God who is in the New Testament.
And likewise, Jesus Christ, as he is displayed in the New Testament, he has just as much wrath and judgment.
as the God that we read about in the Old Testament, because there's not more than one God, there's just one God.
So it shapes how we read Scripture.
And of course, it's what allows us to know God in the first place, because God the Father, in the Eternal Council, decided to save humanity by sending the Son into the world.
And the Son, of course, He takes the sin of humanity upon Himself, the sin of God's people upon Himself,
and it grants us access to the Father, it cleanses us.
It cleanses us from all of impurities, allows us to come before a clean God, but that does not happen without this work of the Holy Spirit, because the Holy Spirit makes the work of Christ effective for us.
So first, knowing God, knowing God that the Trinity has everything to do with us knowing God in the first place.
The second thing, it shapes our view of ourselves.
Now, God existed from eternity in this perfect union, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, having everything that God needed.
It's not like God the Father was alone in creation, and He said, you know what?
Being alone, it's really miserable.
I think that I am going to create a man and a woman to hang out with, a man and a woman to fulfill me.
No, God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit existed from eternity.
Had everything that they absolutely needed and still decided to create.
And so we know that God did not create out of a need.
God created out of delight.
God created out of this overflow of love that He has for Father, Son, and Holy Spirit as an overflow of love by which we're created.
You know what that means?
That means that you matter.
That means that you matter, that you have value.
The mere fact that you were created out of the delight of God, out of the love of God means that you matter.
Everyone that God has created has value and matters because God creates some beautifully, wonderfully, majestically, out of His love.
Okay, so you know God, it shapes our view of ourselves, shapes our view of community, right?
God exists.
Really, as a community, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, three distinct persons, yet one united God, one inseparable God.
And we are created in His image.
We bear the image of this triune God.
And so that means we don't do it alone.
There are no lone ranger Christians.
You can say, well, it's just me and Jesus.
I've got all I need.
I don't need anybody else, just me, me and the big guy upstairs.
No, that's not the way that we were created.
We were created to be in community.
We were created and joined together as a community because we are in the image of a triune God.
Well, that also means that in our distinction,
just as the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are distinct persons of the Trinity.
We too, we are united, we are one with each other, and yet we maintain, we maintain our distinctive, the things that make us distinct, our diversity.
We are united even though we are diverse.
And so we express, we express this unity, we express this community, really in membership of the local church.
as we join together, we unite it together, and we give ourselves to each other, as God has given himself to the members of the Trinity and has given himself to us.
Okay, so knowledge of God, knowledge helps us shape our understanding of ourselves, helps us shape our understanding of community, helps us to shape our understanding of sanctification.
God, Jesus says, I am going to the Father, and I am going to ask, and He is, I'm going to send you somebody.
I'm going to send you another helper, an advocate, to be with you always.
Well, this means that God doesn't say, hey, I want you to follow my laws.
I want you to follow my commands.
I'm out of here.
You go and you're on your own.
Oh, what it means is that
The Holy Spirit is sent to us.
The Holy Spirit lives inside of us and is with us forever.
So at obedience that we do have, it comes from the spirit of God working itself out inside of us and through us.
God is always with us in the power of His Holy Spirit, helping us to be, helping us to learn, to live, and to love like Jesus as broken people saved by grace.
This is God's power doing this.
Okay.
Knowledge of God.
Shapes our view of ourselves.
What was the other one?
Community.
Sanctification.
Mission.
It shapes our view of mission.
This is everything.
It shapes everything.
We're only going to do two more.
It shapes our view of mission.
Well, God the Father sends God the Son into the world for the sake of redeeming humanity.
so that humanity might know God in an unbroken relationship and a healed relationship.
Well, this is what Jesus Christ does.
He goes to the cross.
He takes the weight of sin upon himself.
He dies.
He's raised from the dead, defeating sin and death and making us, giving us union with Him.
So the Father sends the Son, but then the Son and the Father, they send the Spirit.
They grant the Spirit to continue that work of bearing witness to God in the world, the life, the death, the resurrection of Jesus, the majesty, the holiness of God.
So we are people who, at the core of who we are, we are sent.
As the Father has sent me, so I am sending you, as what Jesus says at the end of John's gospel.
So we are people, we are not about our own business.
We are not about our own purposes in a selfish way.
No, we are people who are about what God wants.
We are people who are about God's purpose.
And that is bearing witness to Christ, bearing witness to God in this world.
Mission.
And then finally, prayer.
It shapes our, it influences our prayer.
And we've been given a connection piece to this triune God.
Jesus says, ask anything in my name.
So if the Father may be glorified, ask anything in my name and I will do it.
As we live these lives of mission, as we bear witness to the Father, to the Son, to the Holy Spirit, as we bear witness to God, Jesus says, ask and I will give it to you.
So when we pray, we know we're not talking to ourselves,
You know, through the power of the Holy Spirit, we are in divine communion.
We're united to the Father, to the Son, through the Holy Spirit in our prayer.
And Jesus, after He's crucified, after He raises from the dead 50 days later, He ascends into heaven.
Well, right now, Jesus Christ, it's weird to think about it.
Jesus Christ in His resurrected flesh, He is at the Father's right hand.
Do you know what He's doing?
He's interceding for us.
He lives to intercede for us.
Jesus Christ, in the book of Hebrews, He's called this high priest.
He is the high priest that is always interceding for us.
So as we pray through the power of the Holy Spirit, Jesus Christ too, He knows our burdens.
He knows our concerns that He knows what we need and He is constantly offering those interceding for us to the Father.
Knowing God,
is eternal life, knowing our triune God.
This is how he has revealed himself to us.
It's all about relationship, knowing God.
So may we, as his people, may we give ourselves to this amazing, awesome, wonderful God, the God who has given himself fully and completely to us, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
And all of God's people said, amen.
Take a couple minutes, a couple moments, to let God's words sit with you.
Maybe you wanna think about how you wanna respond to it.
Maybe it's gratitude.
Maybe it's just words of thanksgiving for how awesome and still incomprehensible how mysterious this God is.
Maybe it's an offering of trust.
God, I trust that Jesus himself is God.
and I commit to submitting all of my ways to Him.
Maybe it's trust in the Holy Spirit and the power that the Spirit gives us as we are sent out in mission.
Maybe it's a commitment to the mission that God has, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
What is it that you are being called to offer to the Lord in response to who He is?